# Script of "Neighborhood Regularized Logistic Matrix Factorization with Rescoring using Beta Distribution for Improving Performance of Drug–Target Interaction Prediction"

Techniques for predicting interactions between a drug and a target (protein) are use- ful for strategic drug repositioning. Neighborhood regularized logistic matrix factoriza- tion (NRLMF) is known as one of the state-of-the-art drug–target interaction prediction method, which is based on a statistical model using the Bernoulli distribution. However, our survey revealed a problem that the prediction does not work well when drug–target interaction pairs have less active information (e.g. we supposed a sum of the number of ligands for a target and the number of target proteins for a drug). In this study, in order to solve this problem, we proposed neighborhood regularized logistic matrix factorization with beta distribution rescoring (NRLMFb), which is an algorithm to correct the score of NRLMF. The Beta distribution is known as a conjugative prior distribution of the Bernoulli distribution and it can reflect an amount of active information to its shape. Therefore, in NRLMFb, the Beta distribution was used for rescoring the NRLMF score. In the evaluation experiment, three types of 10-fold cross validation were performed five times for each of the four datasets (i.e. Nuclear receptor, GPCR, Ion channel, Enzyme) and we measured the average values of AUC and AUPR and 95% confidence intervals. As a result, the performance of NRLMFb was shown to exceed that of NRLMF. For this reason, we concluded that NRLMFb improved prediction accuracy as compared to NRLMF.


